---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Release! (1.02)
categories:
- UOITDCLibraryBooking
tags:
- Android
- Release
- Fiverr
- Dogecoin
- Github
---
Its finally happening! I had to make a few attempts at release because
there was an issue with downloading images from the web that only seemed
to happen on the live client. I guess this is what bug fixing is all
about. I ended up taking out that chunk of code and optimizing it to a
more new way. Also that was one of the first things I wrote so it was
pretty cruddy in general.

##Completion (for now)

An interesting distinction when uploading new .apk files to GooglePlay
Developer Console is the version code.

So version code is like literally the chronological number order the app
is coming out in. The version name is just whatever ryou want to call
it, you can name one version 1.00 and the next 0.99 if you want but you
NEED to put the version code as sequential. This is located int the
androidmanifest.xml file as follows:

```xml
    package="com.objectivetruth.uoitlibrarybooking"
    android:versionCode="3"
    android:versionName="1.02" >
```

Here is the link of course:

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.objectivetruth.uoitlibrarybooking

The icon, I think is just amazing and i want to thank this artist on Fiverr for it. She did awesome work.
http://www.fiverr.com/designeye

I told her not to use the official UOIT icon since its copyright and as everyone who's read this knows, this app is in no way affiliated with UOIT so I have to be careful with anything I mention.

Thankfully I have a friend that is in charge of the social media aspect of UofT and she's been helping me out with how the copyright works and what to/not to say. We'll see if I get a letter from UOIT in the mail soon, hah fingers crossed.
 
Well I guess that's it. I'm going to be monitoring the app's reviews and usage stats to see how it goes. I want to do a lot with it but right now I'm focused on finding a job and just getting the summer going.
 
I bought a server recently and I've been playing around with it. So far I've setup

* Remote github repo (don't gotta pay and its private!)

* 24/7 mining for DogeCoins

I'll write a tutorial on both of those soon.

Thanks everyone for reading this and hopefully there will be more to come.

Cheers!
