---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Embarking on iOS
categories:
- iOs Programming
tags:
- iOS
- localize
- multi-platform
- earnings
- indeed
---
##Why learn iOS?

Learning Android has been very rewarding and after sharing my success
with my professors, they had suggested I learn iOS to round out my
skills. The biggest draw was the potential earnings from learning both
languages. I even went ahead and did some research on job potential for
both and individual. This is what I found:

Indeed Search for Android Developer in Toronto

Indeed Search for Android and iOS Developer in Toronto

There was 344 jobs for Android Developer and 244 for Android and iOS as
of writing this. However, the pay increase seems to be higher (this is
looking through just a few postings).

If you put yourself in a Company Owner's shoes I can see why. If you
need to have presence on all the major phone platforms, you could hire 2
people to each do iOS and Android. Apart from the cost of it, the
biggest issue with this approach is the consistency of Visual Design. If
you have a lead platform, then you will always have a second rate
citizen style product on the other platforms.

##A Word on Branding

Whenever you make a multi-platform app, there's 2 options:

Localize your app to the platform

Globalize your app to look the same on both platforms
 
The best approach is to Localize your app to the platform so that your
users aren't completely confused when they go to open it. There are
certain tropes that have been taught to users on each platform that they
expect when they use an app. When the app doesn't make use of this, they
feel confused and overall frustrated, ultimately never opening up the
app again.

An example is the Microsoft Office products when they first came out for
Android and iPhone. Microsoft (to I'm sure great cost and time) tried to
bring their Metro stylings from Windows Phone to their Android and
iPhone Office counterparts. 

If you look at their reviews from then, they
were horrible. It was so strange to open an app on an iPhone or Android
and see this alien metro icons that you've never seen before.

Visual Design is said to be at its best when nobody notices; it's often
described as a feeling.

This is ridiculously important when making an App who is essentially
your company's spokesperson.

Join me as I delve into iOS development coming from an Android
background...
