---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: iOS Dev Requirements
categories:
- iOs Programming
tags:
- iOS
- mac
- mini
- ipod touch
- license
- education program
- kijiji
---
##Hardware Requirements

After searching far and wide, it was tough to find an up to date guide
on what I should buy. Here's everything I ended up buying and I'll
explain why below:

[Mac Mini - $749.00](http://store.apple.com/ca/buy-mac/mac-mini "Mac Mini")

[iPod Touch - $219.00](http://store.apple.com/ca/buy-ipod/ipod-touch/16gb-space-grey "ipod touch 16GB")

Developer Account License - $ 99.00 / year
 
##Mac Mini

You're going to need at least 8GB of Ram, and because Apple doesn't let
you upgrade you need to buy this from them at a crazy 100$ for 4 GB to
8GB upgrade, so you might as well go with the middle of the ground Mac
Mini. Its 200$ more but if you're going to upgrade to 8GB from the base
model anyways, its very worth it.

###Why do you need so much RAM?

If you've ever done development, you know you're going to have a lot of
big files open, this will each up your RAM like woah. 8GB is a good
balance that will make your compile times much faster in the long run

##iPod Touch:

**DON'T buy an old one from Kijiji**

The current gen as of writing is the 5th gen iPod Touch. iPods aren't
refreshed as fast as iPhones, so this is like an iPhone 4S which is
pretty old right now. 

If you were to get a 4th gen iPod Touch of Kijiji
for like 100\$, its wayyy old and won't support iOS 7 or 8 (i know
right???). Unfortunately, there's rumors of an iPod Touch refresh coming
in a few months but I can't wait that long so I plopped down the \$219
now. Even if you get a used iPod 5th gen, it just won't be the same and
the ones initially released 2 years ago don't have a camera, the new
ones you buy have a camera.

To be honest, I hate this thing, its so slow and knowing I paid full
price for a 2-3 year old product makes me sick, but its the cheapest
option.

**Just do it**

##Developer Account License

You need this to debug your app on a physical device.

I know.. it SUCKS big time. WTF Apple??

The good news

If you're a student you can see if your educational institute is part of
Apple's Education plan which is free and gives its students free
developer accounts as long as they're students.

Thankfully for me, University of Ontario Institute of Technology is part
of the program, however I have to wait until school starts in a few
weeks to join.

For now, the Emulator and i are going to be good friends.
